So I'm doing a lot of talking,
you're just taking my word for it.
Let's dive into some network tools to
kind of show you the hidden layer.
We're gonna lift up the sheets and
see, what's going on over here?
How does this all connect together?
So the first network tool I
want you to check out is ping.
Ping, and I won't hold the terminal
because these are pretty straightforward.
There's no flags or anything we're
running other than netstat one.
ping is useful because it tells you,
is the host up or down?
I use ping all the time.
If my Wi-Fi goes out, I'm like,
or if suddenly, I don't know,
the browser is loading slow,
is it the application?
Has my browser locked up?
Or is it my network itself?
Ping is a really fast way of telling
you if the network's up or down.
I like Google, Google's almost never down,
at least google.com.
So it's a pretty reliable way of
saying is my network up and down?
And it's very, very lightweight.
So you can ping all day and
won't do anything.
Fun facts, if you ping
frontendmasters.com it will not respond,
because they disabled replying to UDP or
ICMP requests.
How dare you, Mark?
[LAUGH] I was talking to Mark,
the CEO of Frontend Masters.
So you can disable your computer
responding to pings if you want.
I prefer to leave it open.
It's good to know if
your domain name is down.
The next tool that is pretty fun,
actually, I'll show you this one.
Cuz this gives you, when we talk
about how does the Internet work,
this gives you maybe
a stronger idea of it.
So I'm gonna exit my server,
cuz I just left it open, exit, clear.
So we're gonna run traceroutes.
And this, you may get varying results
depending on where you are in the world
and what your network looks like,
but let's traceroute google.com
So what's happening in traceroute?
Traceroute, actually, as always,
we can man the page first because
it'll give you a better explanation.
But what traceroute does,
oops, what's going on?
Traceroute tells us all of the hops
it takes to get from your computer
all the way to the destination host, and
it prints every single hop along the way.
So when we run traceroute to google.com,
We see all the hops.
And we'll talk about why
it pauses in some places.
But right now, what this is telling
me is I have a local IP address.
Remember we talked about the router gives
us a local IP address that allows us
to connect to Internet and
they usually start with 192.168.
So my current IP address is 192.168.3.1.
That's my computer.
The next hop is going to be
to the modem in this case.
So looking at this tells me they probably
have a modem-router combination,
probably just a router and then a modem,
which is pretty common too.
And their internet provider is, Cogentco?
I never know how to pronounce that one.
But a pretty common ISP,
one of the bigger ones.
So that's connecting to one of the ISPs,
which connects to probably the bigger ISP
of the same name,
which connects to another one,
and so on and so forth.
So we see the hops within just the ISP
taking to get it to the outside world.
And some of these are actually probably,
actually,
you can tell some of these
are co-located by their IP blocks.
And I can tell you just looking at
this that Cogentco owns 154.54.
They own that entire block address,
cuz they are an ISP and
they hand out IP addresses.
The second column is how
long it took to respond.
So that tells me how far away they are,
how fast and how busy they are.
And then, again, I'm telling you,
I can see all this stuff by traceroute.
So we keep going,
we keep going, we keep going.
We are finally out of our ISP.
It's made ten hops to get
out from the internal block.
Now, we're on something else.
I don't know what as6453.net is, but
it's probably a backbone in the Internet
if we wanted to look it up.
It looks like it's in New York,
interesting.
And then these along the way are just
routers, maybe some other ISP,
maybe some backbones,
maybe some Level 3 networking services.
But it's fascinating that we'll hop, we'll
hop, we'll hop, we'll hop, we'll hop, and
then we'll get to, Probably about here.
Here is probably where
Google's data center starts.
We can tell because the IP addresses
underneath start to come from the same
block.
So that tells me we're kind of
narrowing in on the same location,
on the same data center.
So we hop, we hop, we hop, we hop,
and then we finally get to our
destination IP address, which is
the IP address of probably the load
balancer with the server cluster
that's serving out google.com.
So that's pretty cool.
You see how complex the Internet is?
And it took 20 hops just from my
computer to talk to google.com.
So that diagram that I showed
earlier of the different hops,
that was a simplified diagram.
Some of these hops can take 30, 40,
50 hops sometimes to get
to where we're going.
If we're trying to get to, say,
an IP address in another country,
you will see a lot of hops and you will
see the latency go up and up and up.
But I really like traceroute,
because it can tell you where
the problem is in your stack.
So let's say you can't connect to Internet
or you can't connect to your domain or
your server.
You ping it, it doesn't respond, but your
network is actually online of some sort,
or maybe your network is not and
it's slow.
You can use traceroute and
figure out what's the slow part.
Maybe it's actually my ISP, and
it's timing out at one of these blocks,
which tells you it's not your fault.
Or maybe it's Google.
When you get to Goggle, they have
a problem with their data set, and
you'll see the latency
jump up there too as well.
So again, traceroute and ping and
network tools are good for
uncovering what's going on in the world.
And if you're really a network admin or
DevOps, you know these tools pretty well,
they're very useful,
they're pretty simple to use.
Last but not least is, this will by
far give you the most verbose output,
and that's netstat.
So netstat tells you all of the things
that are happening on your computer.
All of the open ports, all of the IP
addresses you are connected to,
all the processes that are running
just internally on your local host.
So if you just did netstat, [SOUND] you
will get blown away by all of the data.
So not super useful to do it in the raw.
But you can see all the processes that
are running on all the open ports.
Let's see if we can get, DNS responder,
I can see my VPN is running.
We have UDP and TCP,
which we're gonna talk about in a second.
You see all these local host ports
are just local processes that open
a port to talk to other processes.
I don't know I have iPhone,
I don't own an iPhone, but
it's probably something to do with iOS and
the way it's named.
So netstat tells you everything that's
going on your computer related to
networking.
Not super useful, I mean,
it is useful, but
let's make this information
a little bit clearer.
Let's run netstat-lt.
I'm gonna pipe it into less.
Less displays my pages one at a time.
It's a very, very convenient way of
displaying a lot of information,
whereas cat just dumps the entire file,
not super useful in this case.
So now, netstat-lt tells me
just my TCP connections and
some of my local host connections.
So this makes it a little bit easier to
reason about what's going on my computer.
And I still have a lot of these,
because your computer is always open.
These ports are always open,
talking to each other.
And don't ask me what some of these do,
I'm not that good.
I'm not an expert at
the OSX operating system.
But it's just fascinating to know
all this stuff is going on and
it's hidden from you in the background.